WEEK 1-2 Initiation and Planning 

DAY 1-2 Management Commitment and ISMS Initiation 

1. Objective: Get top management on board and formally start the ISMS project

2. Activities: 

   >Awareness Session: The ISO consultant explain the important of ISO 27001 to the CEO and senior management, emphasizing its role in enhancing client trust and improving internal security practices

  >Management Commitment: The CEO signs a formal commitment statement allocation resource and assign a project manager 

3. Documentation Created: 
  
    >Project Charter: Outlines the scope, objective, roles, responsibilities and timeliest of the ISMS project 

    > Management Commitment Statement : Demonstrated leaderships support for the ISMS initiative.


DAY 3-5 Understating the Organizations Context(Clause 4.1)

1. Objective: Understand the internal and external factors affecting the organization 

2. Activities 

  >Internal Issues : The consultant conducts SWOT analysis to identify internal strengths (e.g., Skilled workforce, existing security policies) and weakens (e.g. lack of formal risk management process)

  >External Issue: external factors such as regulatory requirements (e.g. GDPR compliance for European clients and DPDP digital personal data protection act for INDIAN clients ) and market conditions are analyzed. 


3. Documentation Created: 

   >Context analysis Report: Summarize the internal and external factor that could impact the ISMS (not mandatory)


DAY 6-8 Understating the Organizations Context(Clause 4.1)

WE begin with indentifying critical information assets (customer data, employee records, financial informations) 

asking which and what information and assets is important for this business?
where it is stored ?


1. Objective: Clearly define what will be included in the ISMS

2. ACtivities: 

    >Scope Defination: The ISM will cover the head office in Noida, including deparment such as IT,HR,FINANCE and TRAIINNG as well as the consultining sevices provide to client 

   >Scope Doucment: A fomrla document is created to outline the boundaries and applicatibilty of the ISMS

3. Documentation Created: (this is the first official document we create which is required to get certifications)

   >ISMS Scope Statment: Clearline defines the orfanizational areas, departments and systemsn coverd by the ISMS (mandatory document)


